It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession of a good fortune,
must be in want of a wife. However little known the feelings or views of such a man may be
on his first entering a neighbourhood, this truth is so well fixed in the minds of the
surrounding families, that he is considered as the rightful property of some one or other
of their daughters.

"My dear Mr. Bennet," said his lady to him one day, "have you heard that Netherfield Park
is let at last?" Mr. Bennet replied that he had not. "But it is," returned she; "for Mrs.
Long has just been here, and she told me all about it." Mr. Bennet made no answer. "Do not
you want to know who has taken it?" cried his wife impatiently. "You want to tell me, and
I have no objection to hearing it."

This was invitation enough. "Why, my dear, you must know, Mrs. Long says that Netherfield
is taken by a young man of large fortune from the north of England; that he came down on
Monday in a chaise and four to see the place, and was so much delighted with it that he
agreed with Mr. Morris immediately; that he is to take possession before Michaelmas, and
some of his servants are to be in the house by the end of next week." "What is his name?"
"Bingley." "Is he married or single?" "Oh! single, my dear, to be sure! A single man of
large fortune; four or five thousand a year. What a fine thing for our girls!"

"How so? How can it affect them?" "My dear Mr. Bennet," replied his wife, "how can you
be so tiresome! You must know that I am thinking of his marrying one of them." "Is that
his design in settling here?" "Design! nonsense, how can you talk so! But it is very
likely that he may fall in love with one of them, and therefore you must visit him as
soon as he comes." "I see no occasion for that. You and the girls may go, or you may send
them by themselves, which perhaps will be still better, for as you are as handsome as any
of them, Mr. Bingley might like you the best of the party."

"My dear, you flatter me. I certainly have had my share of beauty, but I do not pretend
to be any thing extraordinary now. When a woman has five grown up daughters, she ought to
give over thinking of her own beauty." "In such cases, a woman has not often much beauty
to think of." "But, my dear, you must indeed go and see Mr. Bingley when he comes into
the neighbourhood." "It is more than I engage for, I assure you." "But consider your
daughters. Only think what an establishment it would be for one of them. Sir William and
Lady Lucas are determined to go, merely on that account, for in general, you know, they
visit no new comers. Indeed you must go, for it will be impossible for us to visit him
if you do not." "You are over scrupulous, surely. I dare say Mr. Bingley will be very
glad to see you; and I will send a few lines by you to assure him of my hearty consent
to his marrying which ever of my girls he chuses; though I must throw in a good word
for my little Lizzy." "I desire you will do no such thing. Lizzy is not a bit better than
the others; and I am sure she is not half so handsome as Jane, nor half so good humoured
as Lydia. But you are always giving her the preference." "They have none of them much to
recommend them," replied he; "they are all silly and ignorant like other girls; but Lizzy
has something more of quickness than her sisters." "Mr. Bennet, how can you abuse your
own children so? You take delight in vexing me. You have no compassion on my poor nerves."
"You mistake me, my dear. I have a high respect for your nerves. They are my old friends.
I have heard you mention them with consideration these twenty years at least." "Ah, you
do not know what I suffer." "But I hope you will get over it, and live to see many young
men of four thousand a year come into the neighbourhood." "It will be no use to us, if
twenty such should come since you will not visit them." "Depend upon it, my dear, that
when there are twenty, I will visit them all."

Mr. Bennet was so odd a mixture of quick parts, sarcastic humour, reserve, and caprice,
that the experience of three and twenty years had been insufficient to make his wife
understand his character. Her mind was less difficult to develop. She was a woman of mean
understanding, little information, and uncertain temper. When she was discontented, she
fancied herself nervous. The business of her life was to get her daughters married; its
solace was visiting and news.

Elizabeth Bennet had been obliged, by the scarcity of gentlemen, to sit down for two
dances; and during part of that time, Mr. Darcy had been standing near enough for her
to overhear a conversation between him and Mr. Bingley, who came from the dance for a
few minutes to press his friend to join it. "Come, Darcy," said he, "I must have you
dance. I hate to see you standing about by yourself in this stupid manner. You had much
better dance." "I certainly shall not. You know how I detest it, unless I am particularly
acquainted with my partner. At such an assembly as this, it would be insupportable. Your
sisters are engaged, and there is not another woman in the room whom it would not be a
punishment to me to stand up with." "I would not be so fastidious as you are," cried
Bingley, "for a kingdom! Upon my honour, I never met with so many pleasant girls in my
life, as I have this evening; and there are several of them you see uncommonly pretty."
"You are dancing with the only handsome girl in the room," said Mr. Darcy, looking at
the eldest Miss Bennet. "Oh! she is the most beautiful creature I ever beheld! But there
is one of her sisters sitting down just behind you, who is very pretty, and I dare say,
very agreeable. Do let me ask my partner to introduce you." "Which do you mean?" and
turning round, he looked for a moment at Elizabeth, till catching her eye, he withdrew
his own and coldly said, "She is tolerable; but not handsome enough to tempt me; and I
am in no humour at present to give consequence to young ladies who are slighted by other
men. You had better return to your partner and enjoy her smiles, for you are wasting your
time with me." Mr. Bingley followed his advice. Mr. Darcy walked off; and Elizabeth
remained with no very cordial feelings towards him.

She told the story however with great spirit among her friends; for she had a lively,
playful disposition, which delighted in any thing ridiculous. The evening altogether
passed off pleasantly to the whole family. Mrs. Bennet had seen her eldest daughter
much admired by the Netherfield party. Mr. Bingley had danced with her twice, and she
had been distinguished by his sisters. Jane was as much gratified by this as her mother
could be, though in a quieter way. Elizabeth felt Jane's pleasure. Mary had heard herself
mentioned to Miss Bingley as the most accomplished girl in the neighbourhood; Catherine
and Lydia had been fortunate enough to be never without partners, which was all that
they had yet learnt to care for at a ball.

They returned therefore in good spirits to Longbourn, the village where they lived, and
of which they were the principal inhabitants. They found Mr. Bennet still up. With a book
he was regardless of time; and on the present occasion he had a good deal of curiosity
as to the event of an evening which had raised such splendid expectations. He had rather
hoped that all his wife's views on the stranger would be disappointed; but he soon found
that he had a very different story to hear. "Oh! my dear Mr. Bennet," as she entered the
room, "we have had a most delightful evening, a most excellent ball. I wish you had been
there. Jane was so admired, nothing could be like it. Every body said how well she looked;
and Mr. Bingley thought her quite beautiful, and danced with her twice. Only think of
that my dear; he actually danced with her twice; and she was the only creature in the
room that he asked a second time. First of all, he asked Miss Lucas. I was so vexed to
see him stand up with her; but, however, he did not admire her at all: indeed, nobody
can, you know; and he seemed quite struck with Jane as she was going down the dance.
So, he enquired who she was, and got introduced, and asked her for the two next. Then,
the two third he danced with Miss King, and the two fourth with Maria Lucas, and the
two fifth with Jane again, and the two sixth with Lizzy, and the Boulanger." "If he had
had any compassion for me," cried her husband impatiently, "he would not have danced
half so much! For God's sake, say no more of his partners. Oh! that he had sprained his
ancle in the first dance!" "Oh! my dear," continued Mrs. Bennet, "I am quite delighted
with him. He is so excessively handsome! and his sisters are charming women. I never in
my life saw any thing more elegant than their dresses. I dare say the lace upon Mrs.
Hurst's gown." Here she was interrupted again. Mr. Bennet protested against any
description of finery. She was therefore obliged to seek another branch of the subject,
and related, with much bitterness of spirit and some exaggeration, the shocking rudeness
of Mr. Darcy. "But I can assure you," she added, "that Lizzy does not lose much by not
suiting his fancy; for he is a most disagreeable, horrid man, not at all worth pleasing.
So high and so conceited that there was no enduring him! He walked here, and he walked
there, fancying himself so very great! Not handsome enough to dance with! I wish you had
been there, my dear, to have given him one of your set downs. I quite detest the man."
